# Java基本命令学习
- jar -xvf *.jar: 解压jar包
- javap [-lpc] classes: 反编译JavaClass文件
- jps [-q] [-mlvV] [protocol:][[//]hostname][:port][/servername]: Java进程ID查看
- jstack -l pid: 线程死锁问题查看
- jstat outputOptions [-t] [-h lines] vmid [interval [count]]: Java虚拟机统计
    - outputOptions:
        -class option
            Loaded: Number of classes loaded.
            Bytes: Number of KB loaded.
            Unloaded: Number of classes unloaded.
            Bytes: Number of KB loaded.
            Time: Time spent performing class loading and unloading operations.
        -compiler option
            Compiled: Number of compilation tasks performed.
            Failed: Number of compilations tasks failed.
            Invalid: Number of compilation tasks that were invalidated.
            Time: Time spent performing compilation tasks.
            FailedType: Compile type of the last failed compilation.
            FailedMethod: Class name and method of the last failed compilation.
        -gc option
            S0C: Current survivor space 0 capacity (KB).
            S1C: Current survivor space 1 capacity (KB).
            S0U: Survivor space 0 utilization (KB).
            S1U: Survivor space 1 utilization (KB).
            EC: Current eden space capacity (KB).
            EU: Eden space utilization (KB).
            OC: Current old space capacity (KB).
            OU: Old space utilization (KB).
            MC: Metaspace Committed Size (KB).
            MU: Metaspace utilization (KB).
            CCSC: Compressed class committed size (KB).
            CCSU: Compressed class space used (KB).
            YGC: Number of young generation garbage collection (GC) events.
            YGCT: Young generation garbage collection time.
            FGC: Number of full GC events.
            FGCT: Full garbage collection time.
            GCT: Total garbage collection time.
        -gccapacity option
            NGCMN: Minimum new generation capacity (KB).
            NGCMX: Maximum new generation capacity (KB).
            NGC: Current new generation capacity (KB).
            S0C: Current survivor space 0 capacity (KB).
            S1C: Current survivor space 1 capacity (KB).
            EC: Current eden space capacity (KB).
            OGCMN: Minimum old generation capacity (KB).
            OGCMX: Maximum old generation capacity (KB).
            OGC: Current old generation capacity (KB).
            OC: Current old space capacity (KB).
            MCMN: Minimum metaspace capacity (KB).
            MCMX: Maximum metaspace capacity (KB).
            MC: Metaspace Committed Size (KB).
            CCSMN: Compressed class space minimum capacity (KB).
            CCSMX: Compressed class space maximum capacity (KB).
            CCSC: Compressed class committed size (KB).
            YGC: Number of young generation GC events.
            FGC: Number of full GC events.
        -gccause option
            LGCC: Cause of last garbage collection
            GCC: Cause of current garbage collection
        -gcutil option
            S0: Survivor space 0 utilization as a percentage of the space's current capacity.
            S1: Survivor space 1 utilization as a percentage of the space's current capacity.
            E: Eden space utilization as a percentage of the space's current capacity.
            O: Old space utilization as a percentage of the space's current capacity.
            M: Metaspace utilization as a percentage of the space's current capacity.
            CCS: Compressed class space utilization as a percentage.
            YGC: Number of young generation GC events.
            YGCT: Young generation garbage collection time.
            FGC: Number of full GC events.
            FGCT: Full garbage collection time.
            GCT: Total garbage collection time.
        -printcompilation option
            Compiled: Number of compilation tasks performed by the most recently compiled method.
            Size: Number of bytes of byte code of the most recently compiled method.
            Type: Compilation type of the most recently compiled method.
            Method: Class name and method name identifying the most recently compiled method. Class name uses a slash (/) instead of a dot (.) as a name space  separator. The method name is the method within the specified class. The format for these two fields is consistent with the HotSpot -XX:+PrintCompilation option.
- jmap -dump:format=b,file=filename.bin pid: dump内存, 用mat, visualVm等工具研究内存泄漏
- export MALLOC_ARENA_MAX=4: Linux Arena导致Java进程内存占用过高(pmap -px pid 65536 KB)